1. build basic test circuit

built prototype amplifier using power supply -5V, G, +5V
unable to get the output pin to amplify the input - it saturates

2. diagnose circuit, simplify 
read datasheet, learned that there needs to be a current path from input pins to ref.
added this, but still no go!.

replaced input by a potentiometer to debug circuit. no go.
traced the voltages around the circuit and noted that -5V wasn't reaching pin 4.
fixed this, and can get output via potentiometer.

replaced potentimeter with k type probe

chose a value for Rg - 860ohm this gives a gain of 5 + 10k/860 ~= 150

3. move to single power supply with voltage divider method

use 1k2 resister to give a voltage reference - a solution to operating off a single supply but is not ideal because:
  - the voltage is not "stiff" unless the impedence is low but low impedence implies higher current draw
  - halves the voltage range 

go this working ok.

plugged in microprocessor with 3.3V ADC - so used g and 3.3V supply to power amplifier

noticed there was a lot of noise on the output - put 0.1uf caps on input lines to dramatically reduce.

4. moved from breadboard to PCB

again no go - output saturates
inspected PCB and couldn't find any bad joints

voltages all seem good - preplexed

5. Diagnose issues

switched back to dual power supply - stil no go!
removed microprocessor and used power supply for power - working as expected!!

checked voltages again - noticed that pin 4 was 0V when pin 4 is supposed to be -3.3V (not sure how I missed that)
turns out pin 4 was bridged to the GND on the microprocessor - so saturating in the same way as the first problem i had !!

removed solder bridges

tested k type probe and noticed it was dead. replaced probe.

everything seems to work.

6. Look for equations for k type probe

see attached spreadsheet. 
standard NIST polynomial has 9 terms !
suggested P/Q approximation has 6 coefficients.

Out of curiousity I did a linear regression over the 0 to 400 degrees which is more than adequate for my application,
Found a linear equation that gives a very close match over that range.

So we'll use that.

Thot = 24.487*Vprobe + 0.312

Cold junction compensation:
  a*V + c = Thot - Tcold
  => Thot = a*V + c + Tcold


7. incorporated the above into the firmware - gets fairly close results but depends very much on
the offset from the die temperature to the cold end temperature, this is not constant, the environmental
conditions of the board make a huge difference - I'm guessing +/-10 degrees.

Question: if the whole system was put in a box without ventilation I would expect the system to reach thermal 
equilibrium and thus would this offset actually drop to 0 ? Or at least a constant offset.

We could try adding a thermistor at the cold end this should remove the offset error.

We could just accept a fairly wide inaccuracy - and/or test this with the board enclosed and see if the offset 
stabilises. For the intended purpose of a bang bang controlled toaster oven the temperature is not going to be
controlled precisely anyway.

9999. Possible precision improvements

Not sure what the error introduced by the following systemic sources of error:
 
  1. ADC imprecision, we're not using the whole ADC range from GND to -3.3V
  2. measureing the DC offset via ADC adds own error
  3. using ambient die temperature - calibrated to equal cold jucntion temperature by an offset

Fixes

1+2. Use 5V rail for postive power rail, and build capicator diode pump to create negative voltage, use PWM pin 
   output on microprocessor to create oscillator for diode pump. This should get us a negative voltage.
   We can then remove the need to measure Vref, since it will also be GND. By changing the gain we can increase
   the range over of the measured voltage over the 0 to 300 degrees range.

3. Measure the cold junction temperature with a thermister - this should get an much more precise value for Tcold end.









